I've been in business 13 years I've sold
nine companies my last company I sold
for $ 46.2 million my current portfolio
at acis.com just over $17 million a
month and I'm going to compress 13 years
of business advice into this one video
number one have something extremely
expensive to sell that you never even
plan on selling I learned about this
anchoring tactic from a friend of mine
and he said listen man you can just put
something on your menu of items or
services that you sell that's 10 or 100
times more expensive and just by having
it there it'll anchor everything else on
your menu or the rest of the prices that
you have and just make it something that
if someone actually bought it you'd be
stoked that they did but what ends up
happening is that one you'll sell more
people on your core offer because they
have this big price anchor second it
allows you to nudge up your main offer's
price because related to the big one it
looks like almost nothing I was talking
to a different friend of mine and I said
hey you know you should consider just
adding one of these things in and he had
a weight loss business a very generic
online weight loss business and so he
added uh a six times higher price
version of his offer and then the
craziest thing happened people started
buying that more than his core offer and
when he did that he tripled his profit
overnight and so the thing is is that it
also breaks you especially if you're
starting in business out of this fear of
raising prices by just saying hey
there's no there's no way anyone's going
to buy this I'm going to make this so
expensive no one's going to buy it and
that's okay so you give yourself
permission to just fly it out there but
what you will find is that 10% of
customers just want to buy the most
expensive thing these are the whales and
the only thing worse than making a
$1,000 offer to somebody with a $100
budget is making a $100 offer to someone
with a $1,000 budget because in the
first scenario you lose a 100 bucks in
the second scenario you lose $900 of the
money that you should have made but
didn't number two no one knows knows you
exist advertise more and so to give you
context on this when I walk through the
streets I usually get stopped four or
five times on like a 60-minute walk and
when I was launching my book last year I
had you know 500,000 plus people who
were registered it was this massive
event broke the internet whatever but
during the month leading up to it we're
advertising on all channels we're
running ads we've got Affiliates that
are pumping it I'm making content all
over the place and over the 4 weeks of
people that stopped me only one person
knew that I had a book coming out and so
every time I'd see somebody like hey you
going to be at the book launch and
they're like oh you have a book and I
was like how can you not know that I
have a book there's a story from Henry
Ford that I love which is that he was
walking by his the CMO of Ford was right
next to his office and every day he'd
walk by and he'd see the marketing
campaign he he'd see the marketing
campaign a day after day after day and
so 3 months into seeing the same
campaign he knocked on a CMOS door and
he's like hey when are we going to stop
running this thing he's like I'm getting
exhausted to seeing it and the guy just
looked at me he's like we haven't
started running it yet and so the thing
is is that we get so sick of our
advertising so much before our customers
or potential customers even remember our
names and so the extent of advertising
that you have to do there are so many
people in the world and people's
attention is so spread thin and so
they're so distracted that in the off
chance you actually do get an
advertisement of some sort in front of
them the likel that they remember that
it was even you and the core message of
that advertising is even lower and so
many of us have this big fear that we're
harassing our Audience by repeating
ourselves over and over and over again
but the vast majority of the time no one
even a knows you exist or B specifically
knows the message that you're trying to
let them know and so I like to tell my
team and remind myself that we need to
be reminded more than we need to be
taught and so your audience needs to be
reminded more than they need to be
taught and I don't know about you but I
followed plenty of accounts where like
they have the same four or five messages
more or less that they put out there and
the reason I follow them is because I
like the reminder I like to be reminded
to be patient I like to be reminded to
to to not think take things too
seriously I like to be reminded that I
have to think long like those are the
things that I like to be reminded of and
so imagine if that accounts like I
already said be patient once I don't
want to say it again they've already
heard that from me it's like no people
have messages that they want to continue
to get fed into and every time you feed
that same message that they likeed
before back into them they'll have
another positive experience with you the
amount of novelty that's required in
content is significantly less than you
think as a creator think about it like
you're going after a girl and she's with
somebody right now all right so you're
like okay well I'm going to ease off but
I'm just going to just let let them know
I'm just going to throw these little
flares out there that I'm that I'm I'm
interested I'm here I'm not being
disrespectful but I'm I'm available
right and then what happens is as soon
as uh she gets out of that relationship
or whatever then she's receptive to your
message and so the thing is same way
works with customers is that they might
not be looking for a marketing solution
they may not be looking for a plumbing
solution they might not be looking for
an IT services provider for 3 months 6
months 9 months but they might like to
hear your stuff but the moment they are
in the market you're the first one they
think of because you continued to repeat
the messages that resonated with them to
begin with the big thing is the 4x4 all
right which is especially when you're
starting out four hours a day doing the
core four and so the core four means
you're reaching out to people you know
oneon-one reaching out to strangers
one-onone making content one to many or
running ads one to many and so there's
the four ways the only things one person
can do to let other people know about
their stuff and so I use the rule of 100
as my my guide there which means you
either make a 100 minutes of content you
do a 100 outreaches so either cold or
warm or or and if you want to get really
spicy or at least $100 a day of
advertising now obviously the $100 a day
you can scale as much as you want but as
a baseline for anybody who's starting a
business those are three ways that you
can just say okay what do I have to do
to let more people know about my stuff
if you're not making 100 minutes of
content you're not doing 100 outreaches
a day day or you're not spending $100 a
day on ads no one's going to know you
exist and that is the biggest threat to
your business the reason it's so
important as a Founder to do this in the
business is that you have to be able to
make it rain and so every business at
the most basic level has to advertise
before it can have money right so like
if you want to make money people cannot
give you money until they know you exist
and so is a is a pre-requisite for
making money in business is that you
advertise first and then you have a
product that you can deliver on and
that's the most basic form that you have
to have if you just have the product and
no one finds out you will continue to
not make money which leads me to number
three until you're at $100,000 a month
advertising is all of your focus and the
main reason for that is if you don't
have enough people coming in you're not
going to have enough iterations of the
product to get feedback to know if your
stuff's good or not and what you need to
do to make it better now the thing is is
that up to $100,000 a month at that
point it's all advertising but at some
point in order to continue to scale you
need to fix the product you need to make
sure that people are refg you need
people make sure people are happy that
they're referring other people that
they're staying month after month or
they're repurchasing month after month
after month and so if you're not solving
that then you've got a leaky bucket and
that's going to be a problem that you're
going to deal with later and so the
smart move is to fix that stuff now so
that you can grow a really big business
and this is one of the biggest mistakes
that I made so many times in my early
career is that you start advertising you
start understanding a sell and acquire
customers and you say oh that worked
I'll do more of it and you should do
more of it but within this current
context of you have to make sure that
you're delivering and so my
recommendation is get to a million doll
so get to $100,000 a month is then put
all of your focus on filling all the
holes in the bucket so that and the
thing is is when you do that you're
actually going to keep growing because
if you keep the same activities and then
you fix the holes you're still going to
keep growing steadily month after month
after month even with the same level of
advertising effort then once you fix the
holes then you go back to the front end
and say how do I 10x this and that is
how you can stair step even though your
actual Revenue growth will still look
flat because when you fix the holes
you'll make more money but the doing
this of the business will shift now if
you do the alternative of that which is
you just advertise more and more and
more there's going to get to a point
it's an ASM toote so basically you start
growing and you start plateauing like
this because then your infrastructure is
too big and there's too many moving
pieces to fix the thing that you should
have fixed earlier but then you're in a
rock and a hard play scenario because
then you can't B dial back the
advertising because you got all these
people that you've hired but the more
you sell the more your reputation goes
in the tank because the stuff's not good
and so you get a really hard scenario
and so fixing it first fixing it early
sets you up to build a much bigger
business later number four under a
million dollars a year it's one channel
one Avatar one product I see way too
many small business owners saying hey
I've got two businesses or I have seven
products or have two different avatars
or blah blah blah blah right no focus on
one specific type of customer and if you
s if you just say yes to everyone with
money you basically saying no to your
business because you're never going to
be able to focus and make something
really good you can't serve six
customers and then make a good product
only doing $100,000 a month it just
doesn't like it's it's too small volume
like you don't get enough reps and so
you need to do one very specific thing
which means you have to say no to people
who aren't that that type of person you
serve one problem which means you have
one product for that specific Avatar and
you get better and better at templatized
at at productizing the service or
product whatever the product is itself
making iterations on it and you
advertise through one channel meaning
you just know how to make cold email
convert or you just know how to make
cold calls convert or you just know how
to make uh Tik Tok ads convert or you
just know how to make YouTube videos
that convert whatever your channel is
you just stick with that channel because
as soon as you're like oh I'm going to
do two different things like that's not
the objective of this stage you just
need to get it reliable so that that you
can then keep tweaking the product so
that then you can 10x the existing
Channel you're on once you get to about
a million a month is when I recommend
starting to to think about second and
tertiary channels of getting customers
and part of the reason I recommend that
is that when you start a second channel
it's going to cost you money and it's
going to cost you time and so the reason
that you keep that one channel and keep
doing it longer than you think is
because you need to be able to get it
working at the same level or higher with
not you doing it so that you can have
the secondary Channel if you're the one
who's gassing this first channel and
then you move to the second well now you
have this second one that's not going to
be working out nearly as efficiently as
the first one especially in the
beginning the first 3 months 6 months
it's not going to be cranking like the
first one is but the first one's also
going to go down because you're not
there and so you spend the extra time
there you put the right people in place
you make sure the training is such that
they actually can meet or exceed what
you were doing on your own and then when
you start the second Channel you can
pour resources into it because you still
have cash flow from your main thing and
that little switch is where most people
get lost and they just Crush their
businesses so don't do that so to give
you guys some context I didn't open up a
second channel of acquisition until we
were at 4 million a month now mind you I
started with paid ads because I was good
at paid ads and I learned how to run
paid ads in my local business which then
when I went National I KN had to do the
same skill set but after 4 million a
month I was like okay I need to get this
second Channel going and so I started
increasing that channel via cold email
cold call cold DMS with an outbound team
but I say that because a lot of people
are like shouldn't I do this I try to
delay that as long as I possibly can
because I know it's going to cost a huge
amount of time a huge amount of money
and it might not work for 6 to 12 months
and to give you context it took me 12
months for outbound to be responsible
for half of my Revenue so it's not going
to happen overnight number five always
start for free always and I know and I I
don't usually use explicit 100% black
and white language but I have yet to see
a time where starting for free has not
made me more money so let me explain so
when I started my Fitness business way
back when I started with free I wanted
to get people results and I said I don't
have any experience so please let me
just train you for free and because of
that I have lower Stakes because they
didn't pay me money they're still paying
in other ways they're still paying time
time they're paying inconvenience all
the other things that a customer has to
do those costs are still there by the
way those hidden costs are the things
that you want to decrease as much as you
can in your product so that you can
charge more money because you'll find
over time that the most expensive thing
about your product often isn't the price
it's everything else you require a
customer to do as a result of the
purchase which is what things do they
have to give up that they like doing as
a result of the purchase and what is
what are the things that they have to
start doing that they hate doing as a
result of the purchase and this happens
with everything and when I say like and
hate I use those as extremes but
fundamentally there's some sort of
friction there's some sort of
inconvenience like when I buy a car I
have to now get gas that is now an
inconvenience in my life now compared to
all the other cars maybe all cars that
have that inconvenience until they have
an electric car and all of a sudden that
inconvenience has been removed because I
can plug the car in at night so I'm a
co-owner of school.com and I talk to
beginner entrepreneurs a lot and so I
see this happening more often than not
which is that they say hey no one wants
to buy my thing and I say okay well
where's your where are your testimonials
where are the people that you've used
before this that you've helped get the
result and they're like well I don't
have any I'm like well why would I
believe you they're like well I have
this amazing offer and I'm going to talk
about this in number six at length but
if you don't start for free why should
anyone believe you and if you are doing
this for the first time why would you
want to take money for something that
you don't even know if it's good yet and
so this can both give you the conviction
and give you the confidence to get going
because you actually have some results
that you can go off of you can use those
results to Market to get more customers
I do this at every level of business and
so everything that I do I always start
with free no matter what it is and
whether it's a new product line in a
massive company one of our portfolio
companies we built out a software
product uh for the existing service base
and so we said hey we can now have a DIY
version of our services that you can use
with this software product and what did
we do we started for free we took our
top 100 customers and said hey why don't
you try it out let us know get us
feedback and they just kept giving us
feedback back and honestly in the
beginning the fact that some people want
to charge for this is insane it's like
they're giving me so much valuable stuff
I'm just happy that they use it right
and so you go with free and then you go
with a small small amount of money and
then you keep raising your prices over
time which I'll get to in a second and
for those of you who are worried about
your pocketbook like I'm Froning all
these costs well yeah that's why it's
called investing in a business but
people who you work with for free can
make you money in three ways number one
is they can leave you a testimonial
number two is they can refer you other
customers via Word of Mouth that you did
a good job and number three they can
actually stay on and pay after a certain
period of time when you do make it not
free and you make it uh for money
because if you want to keep surfacing
and this is ideally how it works out is
that you do such a good job that they're
like I don't want this to stop and then
you say great now you can do it in
exchange for money because I can't do
this anymore in exchange for nothing
because I have enough demand because
I've done a good job that I have these
referrals and I have this proof that
people do want to pay me for my services
so if You' like that too you can get get
the same price they have number six and
this is a big one proof over promise so
what a lot of beginners do and they read
you know $100 million offers and they're
like I have a grand slame offer and so
because of that I've got this big thing
with all these bonuses and the stack and
these guarantees and I've got a premium
price and yet no one's buying it so what
I want to do is walk you through a
hypothetical let's say on one extreme
we've got somebody who has an amazing
crazy awesome offer for whatever they
promise you the world and Beyond on this
stream same core product or core Service
as the first guy except he has no crazy
offer he just has 1,000
testimonials who is going to get the
most customers this guy and so your
proof is going to do more selling than
any promise can possibly do because the
promises all function as an
approximation of the likelihood that
they're going to get a result and proof
is always going to be more compelling
and so when you're starting out you want
to capture as much proof as humanely
possible now I have a huge amount of
stuff on proof because I I'm obsessed
with it but I'll give you four very good
things that you can do to make your
proof more compelling number one recent
proof is better than delayed proof so if
proof was 5 years old proof that's from
last week is going to be more compelling
second is you want it to be as visual as
possible so just a bunch of words on a
screen is less compelling than a
screenshot of someone's bank account
after they made money or someone saying
hey I lost 20 pound is not as compelling
as the picture of them losing 20 lbs
which is also less compelling than a
video of them weighing in and then a
video of them weighing out the third
component for proof that I'll give you
is you want high volume and the nice
thing is that most businesses actually
have a lot more proof than they know
they do they just never capture it and
so one of the things that I did in our
brick and mortar chains that we had with
all of the the gyms I do across all our
brick and mortars is if you look at Yelp
you look at Google you look at Facebook
all of these have reviews for your
business and so for me and if you're
digital then you have Facebook reviews
on your Facebook page and things like
that and so I would go into the Stars
you click into it and there's like a
hundred of them and then you just
screenshot each one of them so if you
have hundred five star reviews on Yelp
that's like a mediocre Yelp account
right but if I screenshot a hundred of
those and then I frame them and I put
them on my Lobby wall from floor to
ceiling it's overwhelming the amount of
proof that is and so most businesses
have way more proof than they think they
do they just don't leverage it and so
one of the easiest things you can do
take the screenshots of all all review
sites across all platforms show them
individually and show them as your new
wallpaper and the fourth element of
proof is that you want to capture pain
and so let me explain by this so I've
been able to look at a zillion ads
across all companies where they have
testimonial ads from customers or user
generated content to be fancy right the
thing is is the content that begins with
pain converts significantly higher and
so this is my theory around this which
is that the pain relates to the customer
or Prospect where they're currently at
if they start with the promise it's too
far disconnected but if you start with
pain they relate to the person and then
you can take them through the story of
them getting the result but if you start
with the end result it's too disjoint
it's too far away it becomes less
believable so if you had to pick between
proof or promise double down on proof
and that's also the reason that I tell
everyone to start with giving stuff away
for free because it's the easiest and
fastest way to get tons of it best time
to ask someone for a testimonial at the
moment of greatest satisfaction all
right so that's also by the way
different from the best time to sell all
right because you want to sell at the
moment of greatest pain you want to get
a testimoni at the moment of greatest
satisfaction so think about this way if
I were to say hey uh you have a steak
dinner and you have a steak and you're
starving you're like oh this is great
blah blah blah blah the moment to sell
you the steak is right before you've had
the steak and then you eat the steak now
after you have the steak is that the
moment that I say would you like another
steak not really because you're like I'm
full I'm good so that's the point of
greatest satisfaction not the point of
greatest deprivation now after I've had
the steak if I say hey would you mind
like looking in the camera and saying
how great the Stak was people like oh my
God it was amazing it was so great you
guys should definitely check this place
out it's awesome right and so point of
greatest deprivation is when you make
your sale point of greatest satisfaction
is when you collect your proof number
seven raising prices almost always makes
you more money but you hear no more
often and so let me break this down so I
had a a sales guy in one of our
portfolio companies and we doubled the
price of a product so a lot of people
are like really afraid of like 10% or
20% increases like I'll test 4X 5x price
differences pricing in many instances is
far more inelastic than you think it is
all right so elastic versus inelastic
pricing I'm not getting into that but
basically if you have a $5 sandwich
going to $10 sandwich there's a lot of
elasticity with food meaning people are
very responsive to small increases in
price the classic counter example is if
you have life saving medication it's not
very elastic at all meaning if you
double the price people still going to
pay for it because they need to live
right and so the thing is is that if you
have a very bable thing the price is
usually a lot a lot more flexible than
you think it is in terms of how much you
can move it up all right and so I like
making massive price tests but the thing
that you have to have when you do this
is the balls or the stomach to deal with
more nose and so when I walked that
sales team through the price increase I
said hey we're going to double the price
I said you have to understand that we're
for sure going to get less or fewer
yeses but the question is will we get
half the yeses so we had a 35% reduction
in conversion percentage but we doubled
the price and so we made more money in
multiple ways so one we made more
absolute Revenue we literally just made
more Topline but the magic of this is
that let's say the cost of our thing was
$500 and we sold the thing for $1,000
okay so we have 50% margins well if we
double the price we go from making $500
$ in profit to $1,500 in profit so I
actually triple the amount of money I
make by doubling my price and so even if
I have a 35% reduction or a onethird
reduction in sales I tripled how much
money I made on the other 2/3 of my
sales which means me doubling the price
with a one-third reduction in sales
still doubled the profit in absolute
amounts despite selling onethird fewer
customers and one of the nice benefits
of having fewer customers is that you
have fewer costs associated with
delivering on them so not only is the
gross margin per customer higher your
fixed cost that you have to incur to
continue to expand your infrastructure
go down and fundamentally a smaller
amount of customers that make more money
is an easier business to run than more
customers that make you less money and
let me tell you how important this is
I've seen businesses that have not
changed their prices for five six seven
years right because they're afraid to do
it whatever but I want to give you some
real hard truth right now
in 2017 if you sold something for $100
that was your only product and you were
running 20% margins as a business if you
did not change your price from 2017
until 2024 that $100 now means that your
costs in that business have gone up by
20% which means that your profit is now
zero and so if you feel like your
margins continue to compress year after
year after year it's usually because
you're not appropriately adjusting your
prices so to give you context
$79 in 2017 is the equivalent of $100
today and so that would be like you
going back in time where you had a 20%
margin business and running it at a $79
price point rather than a $100 price
point and so you just like that
eliminate all the profit in the business
and so you have to do the reverse of
that because inflation is a compounding
threat to your business that every year
stacks on top of itself and so if you're
not making three 6% increases in prices
at least annually you're not even
keeping up with inflation and to give
you a little story around this Warren
Buffett when he bought C candies said
that he only wanted to control one thing
and so what that one thing was is that
every year he would look at all the
prices of all the candies and he would
ship them the new pricing and he has
raised prices 50 years in a row
sometimes in a single year as high as
177% onto their pricing and as a result
of that he's cleared himself a billion
dollars in profit and so if it was the
one thing that he focused so hard on it
might be something worth thinking about
so if you do make a pricing change
there's two components to this one is
new customers the other is old customers
the easiest thing to do is just change
the price and and just apply it to
everyone who's new that's simple and if
you're in a transactional business then
it's fine even because the old customers
come back and buy again right but if
someone's on some sort of recurring
service is a little bit trickier now I
have some tactics around this but I'll
just give you the high levels which is
you want to have a price increase letter
you want to talk about all the things
that they're going to get as as a result
of the investment that you're now making
into the business and that it's the only
way that you'll be able to stay in
business given inflationary pressures
Etc all right and so you just want to
say here's the thing here's the stuff
you're going to get I want to keep my
promise to you which is to keep our
thing as good as possible and only way
for me to ethically keep my promise is
for us to reflect that in the prices
which are now having to be changed
effective this date but don't worry I've
grandfathered you in to your old price
by this time and that's key is that the
old customers you say I've Grand
everyone wants to be grandfathered you
say so I'm grandfathering you in until
this and that way it's not like it's
changing tomorrow it's delaying the pain
and giving them a gift right now as a
way of honoring the fact that they've
been loyal customers to you those are
the main bullets of what that price
letter would go out and say and if you
are going to raise your prices you want
to be measured about it you should know
what your conversion rates are prior to
you making the price change and you
should be able to give a statistically
significant sample size of shots on goal
with the new price before you make a
decision if you get on the phone and the
first two people say no well we one knew
more people were going to say no we
already expected that and if you have
call it 40% close rates right now well
if you make double the price and you go
to 30% close rates then that's still a
great deal for you you might just be
getting the first two NOS out of the
seven NOS you already know you're going
to get when you talk to 10 people and so
talking to two or three people getting
NOS doesn't mean you need to change your
price it might have just been the nose
you're normally going to get even at
your lower price and so you can't be
emotional about this you have to be
calculated and this in my opinion is the
the reason most people don't raise their
prices or can't do it successfully
number eight talk to customers to solve
all your problems so Paul Graham said
this and I think it's really good he
said you can solve just about every
business Problem by talking to your
customers so if your advertising isn't
converting talk to your customers if
your pages aren't converting talk to
your customers if the price seems weird
talk to your customers If the product
isn't delivering talk to your customers
at the end of the day your customers are
the people you serve and they have all
the information you need to make your
product better so especially when you're
starting out even if you have very low
prices so let's say you charge $10 a
month for something all right and it's
and you want this thing to have
thousands and thousands of customers
okay fine but if you don't talk to
customers you're not going to know
what's going to drive them to convert
buy and stay and so I come from an
industry where people meet face tace in
person to sell $10 a month memberships
and so I don't want to hear it all right
I spent the first four or five years of
my career selling $30 $50 $100 things
all day long I don't know a very
successful advertising entrepreneur
who's a rain maker meaning they know how
to get customers who didn't have four or
five years of Hardcore sales under their
belt that no one knew who they were
right that's the rocky cut scene is
where you take hundreds and thousands of
calls with customers where you hear the
words they use so that when you you say
does this suck but they say it
differently and so then you say that in
your advertising and when you take these
sales gos for $10 a month you're not
doing it for the $10 a month you're
doing it so that you can learn more
about them and you just so happen to get
paid but you find out the words that get
them to move because you might think
these are all the selling points to your
thing but when you're talking to them
nothing really happens then you say one
thing and then boom their eyes light up
and they're like yeah that and then all
of a sudden you reorder your sales
scripts you reorder your headlines you
re order the the road map on the things
that you're going to improve in the
product because these are actually the
things that are driving purchases
for the first purchase and getting them
to stay and so most entrepreneurs are
afraid to talk to customers I have no
idea why that is they're afraid to talk
to random people who are giving them
money I don't get it but one of the
easiest ways you can learn more about
your business to make more money is pick
up the phone and call people who've
given you money and ask them why they
did and just as importantly maybe more
importantly talk to all the people who
didn't buy and ask them why they did it
yeah and if you think you're above this
you're right you you should just keep
doing that but for everybody who wants
to beat that guy just get on the phone
with your customers so inside of
school.com we run a contest every month
where the top 10 people who are new to
the platform who generate the most
Revenue in their communities get to fly
out to Vegas and spend a day with me and
Sam who's the other owner of school and
part of the reason we do this is that of
course it's a great prize for all the
winners and they get to meet each other
and it's an awesome event but for us we
get such valuable user feedback from
Super users these are the highest most
invested users users and so we're like
hey do you like this thing hey this is
the product room hey would you
prioritize this over this so recently we
used the feedback from this group we
said hey we have this thing that could
be controversial with the rest of the
community because we could see people
taking it like this if we made this
change in the product what would you
guys think and unanimously they're like
oh no that would make us more money
we're totally in for it and so we're
like wow and so months of deliberation
of like oh do you think they'll like it
I don't know if they'll like it what if
they don't like it all of that got
solved by just asking them and then we
got our answer and then we did it and
everyone was happy and so the beauty of
this is that you get certainty around
your decisions and so you can make
decisions faster and the entrepreneurs
who make faster decisions move faster
and when you do talk to customers
whether it's in person like this school
event that I was talking about or just
on the phone what do you think happens
to them you can take someone from a
neutral customer to a Super Fan in one
call you can tell the story of the
business you can tell them why they
started you show that you care and guess
what that person might bring you 10 or
50 more people people when you think two
rows down the line of Word of Mouth
referrals and of course they're probably
going to stay way longer than they would
otherwise because if they do have an
issue guess what they're going to do
instead of cancelling they're going to
call you and let you know a great time
to do this that a lot of people don't
like is that the moment people ask to
cancel so if you have any kind of
recurring membership or if they ask for
a refund if you have onetime
transactions get on the phone with them
and it's not necessarily to try and like
you know hard sell them back into it
which by all means you can but the more
valuable thing is to understand what
went wrong and you'd be surprised how
many times you just let someone vent and
here's the key don't minimize what they
said get more angry about the reason
they're canceling than they are because
you're like that's ridiculous that
should have never happened to you I
can't believe that was your experience I
completely understand why you'd want a
refund I would want to refund 10 times
over I'm surprised you're not trying to
put me in jail I get it all right is
there is there a world that I can make
this right or what would it take for me
this is the question what would it take
for me to make this right and so now you
get into them solving what it would cost
or what it would take for them to stay
and more times than not it's not as big
as you think you want to talk to all
sorts of customers so you want to talk
to the super users you want to talk to
the moderate users and you want to talk
to the low users but you're going to get
different things out of it like I don't
I'm not going to prioritize a road map
or things that I'm going to reinvest in
the business based on people who are not
that invested in the business I want to
I want to talk to the super users who
are getting the most out of it because
they're going to have more context but
in terms of what problem do I want to
solve for these people it's like why
didn't this work for you so this would
be stuff that's like friction so this is
going to be way more about getting new
customers like I'm going to solve new
customer Problems by finding out why
people didn't buy or bought and then
left and then I'm going to figure out
how to make my customers more valuable
and get them to stay longer by talking
to Super users uh and your super fans or
the best customers you have about what
would make this even better number nine
what to say to prospects on the phone
when you're just starting to get your
first sales so I use something called
The Closer framework I'll make it very
short but the call should go something
like this C so closer is an acronym C
clarify why they're there so what made
you hop on the call what made you take a
step what made you respond to my email
what made you comment on my post
whatever it is they took an action to
become an Engaged lead and that is your
advantage because any person that you
get on the phone with with the exception
of a true true cold call first pickup
with the exception of that everyone has
responded to an email they've commented
on a post they've responded to an ad
they've opted in whatever so you ask
them why they did that that clarifies it
gives you also big Authority in the
frame because they've taken a step
towards you and you're just receiving so
you say hey why'd you do that and then
they'll tell you what it was then you
move on to L which is like okay so what
I'm hearing is and this is labeling with
a problem so it sounds like you want
this and this is the problem or you're
you want to have this outcome and you
haven't gotten it yet is that sound
about right they're going to say yes and
you're like okay cool then you go to O
and you say you're going to overview
their past experiences you're like okay
so what have you done so far to try and
make this happen why is this so
important to you what else has happened
in the meantime that has cost you from
not having this occur right and we call
this the pain cycle the reason you do
the pain cycle before you sell something
is that you want to temporarily increase
their deprivation around that outcome so
we want to temporarily in the state of
the conversation increase how important
that outcome is for them so you've
probably heard in in politics whatever
the topic is of the debate it's like
it's the economy it's education it's the
border right whatever media puts more
attention on is what people say is the
main reason they vote for candidates
they basically make that the topic of
the election which is the macroeconomic
situation or whatever right when you're
in a micro event like a sales call you
have sometimes 10 minutes sometimes an
hour to basically in that very small
call Elevate the importance of that
problem in their life so that you can
motivate action they were kind of hungry
when they get on the call but as you
talk about the food that they could be
having and the bad food they've been
eating every single day and how crappy
it is and how it's not good for them and
how tasty and delicious this food is
what are we doing we're increasing their
deprivation we're making them hungrier
so that when we make our offer they're
more likely to take it which then goes
to S which is you sell the vacation and
the reason I say sell the vacation not
the plane flight is most salespeople
most new entrepreneurs want to focus on
their features they want to talk about
the flight they want to talk about TSA
they want to talk about check-in they
want to talk about their bags they want
to talk about their seat all of these
things that are on the way to Maui their
destination you want to just talk about
Maui you want to talk about the lick
your fingers good what it's going to be
like when they have a full stomach and
they're feeling great with their family
at the restaurant that's what we want to
talk about we don't want to talk about
how they're going to order it we don't
want to talk about the the selection we
don't to talk about how many times
they're going to get their drinks
refilled we don't talk about any of that
we want to talk about Maui we want to
talk about being on the beach with the
wind in their hair with a my tie in hand
that's what we want to talk about sell
the vacation typically is a three-point
pitch which is by the way you can
separate anything into three points
right now you just Chunk Up or chunk
down based on hey what does it take to
be successful it's like you need Fitness
Nutrition accountability you need the
leads to be timely personalized and
qualified right whatever it is so it
doesn't matter what you're selling you
can come up with three points and the
people have to say yeah if I had all
three of those things I would succeed
now at that point someone doesn't say
yes you move on to E which is explain
away their concerns which are what of
the specifics they have that are the
reasons that they're not buying which is
usually going to be some sort of
specifics about the program something
time related something money related
something decision maker related meaning
they have to give the decision-making
authority to somebody else or finally
them just simply avoiding the decision
for fear of making a mistake and so you
need to account for all five of those
and know how to overcome each of them
which I cover in a 4H hour plus video
that you can watch on my channel
somewhere else R is reinforce the
decision so once they have made a
decision to buy you're not done yet now
the work begins which is the next 24
hours is crucial to making sure that
they feel really wowed and impressed
with your business most customers will
judge a business based on the first 24
hours post purchase and so if you say
hey I'm going to get you three things
the next 24 hours you're going to get
introduced to this person she's going to
do this and this is what's going to
happen next then you make those promises
and you keep those promises within that
time frame and ideally you do it even
faster than you promised you want their
impression to be like man these guys are
dial The Closer framework is simple that
simple enough that you can teach it to
somebody else and when I was starting in
my gym journey I had sold every single
membership for a year plus and until I
had somebody else come in who had never
sold weight loss and have them follow
the c l s r framework in the sales pitch
and then saw them close their first sale
without me I like I actually cried I was
like so I was like oh my God I someone
else can sell this like I this may
actually be a business and so learning
to sell in this framework also make
makes it duplicatable so that you can
give it to somebody else over time
number 10 and this is big before you
even think about doing something new do
10 times more of what's already working
and so this is like one of the things as
soon as I buy a portfolio company what
I'll do is I go to the head of marketing
I go to the founder and I say hey why
can't we 10x what we're currently doing
tell me why we can't honestly two times
out of three they're like I mean we
could and I'm like then why aren't we
doing that and what happens is they have
all these other priorities that are not
going to 10x the business and they have
this one thing that we already know
works that that we have nothing that's
stopping us from 10 Xing the business
and I say great let's do that call me in
6 months now the thing is is in one out
of three times to say well we can't 10x
this because of this thing then I say
guess what the constraint of this
business is solving that and if you're
doing anything but solving that then
you're not growing the business right as
a Founder rather you're not growing it
as fast as you could be growing it you
doing outbound it's like great why can't
we do 10 times the outbound well I don't
have enough leads from from lists okay
great so our constraint of 10x in this
business is that we need to find more
sources for list so we need to either
scrape more lists we need to buy more
lists or make more lists ourselves eles
okay that's solvable let's do that if
it's hey uh if we 10x are advertising
dollars like we just need to add more to
the budget oh we can't do that because
our ads aren't good enough okay great so
we need to have more creative that's the
constraint of the business if it's
content which is why can't we make 10x
content or make our content 10 times
better or maybe realistically a
combination of the two which is we're
going to put out two times the content
and we're also going to try to make it
two to three times better great then
guess what now we have a Sixx can we
triple the content and make it three
times better sure well what did we do in
the best content that we had that we're
not doing in all the other pieces great
can we tempti that and make that the
Playbook that we use with every piece of
content great we're not doing that cool
let's do that before we do any of these
other ideas that you had and so a lot of
entrepreneurs because it's boring to
them they figured out how to do this one
thing and they think oh I should figure
out how to do something else when once
you get something to work the whole goal
is to beat the living hell out of it is
to squeeze every last drop from that
thing that works and you do as much as
you possibly can as well as you possibly
can before even thinking about doing
something new so let me walk you through
the five stages of the traditional
entrepreneur for advertising or even for
business they have something that they
hear about that they think is cool so
they go into uninformed optimism they're
really optimistic but they have no idea
then they jump into this new thing and
they become an inform form Med pessimist
and so they find out way more about this
thing and then they're like wow this is
actually kind of hard and then they go
to stage three which is the value of
Despair where they're like wow this
isn't working this isn't what I thought
it was going to be and then what they do
is dot dot dot they start over at
uninformed optimism because they hear
something else is easier but they miss
out on step four and five which is they
become an informed optimist so they say
okay I understand how outbound works I
understand how PID ads work I understand
how organic works and what are the
things that it takes to scale and how
much work it really is and then finally
get to level five which is achievement
which is they actually achieve the goal
but most people just repeat 1 2 3 one 2
3 uninformed optimism informed pessimism
value of Despair start back over and
they just hit all three of those over
and over and over again whether that's
new marketing channels new products new
businesses and this is a version of the
woman in the red dress is that it's
always deceptive to think that the new
thing is going to be easier and the only
reason you think it's easier is cuz you
don't know enough I wish I could just
give you the scar issue of having done
that three-part triangle over and over
again but all I can tell you is that
like when I get that little tickle in
the back of my neck where I'm like ooh
this looks exciting it's now become a
warning flag to me because I've been
burned so many times doing it to say oh
I must not know enough about this
because everything is hard I'll give you
an an analogy that a mentor gave me that
I really liked and I think it applies to
a lot of things but when he was talking
to me about departments in my business
he said you have to know where the
bodies are buried and I was like what do
you mean by that he said if have you
ever talked to like a head of a
department like I or HR legal or
whatever and they say yep everything's
good if you don't know what problems are
actually going on in the department
you're too far away and so that's in a
way uninformed optimism they're just
telling you it's great and you don't
know any better so you're uninformed but
you should know enough about the
business to know where all the bodies
are buried you should know where all the
skeletons in the closet are and so if
you're getting into a new thing you have
to know all of the ways or as many ways
as you possibly can about what's going
wrong and once you do a little bit more
research you often find out that there's
a lot of things you don't know about and
guess what the thing you do know is
working right now and the likelihood
that you doing 10 times more of that has
far fewer unknowns than you doing brand
new on something net new
entrepreneurship already has so many
risks and so much
unknown basos talks about this he says
we want to manage as many of the risks
as we can so of course we're going to
incur some risks that are going to
happen that are unforeseen to us but the
risks that we know about we want to
limit to the greatest degree possible
because there's enough risk of our
business going out of business by being
a business why take on more risk for no
need it's risking what you have and need
to survive for what you don't have and
don't need which brings me number 11
which is growth is
stressful stagnation is
stressful decline is
stressful that means that business is
stressful and so the only stressfree
people are people people who are dead
and if you're in business you need to
accept stress as a fact of life and not
something wrong with you or wrong with
your particular business it's just that
things are stressful in general welcome
to life and so I see a lot of
entrepreneurs try and change their
businesses because they feel stressed
but every scenario of business has
stress there are different kinds of
stress but they're all stressful and so
the idea that there's something wrong
with you or wrong with your business
because it is stressful misses the point
of how business works and I'll tell you
an analogy to make this make sense so if
you've been in business for any period
of time think about your first business
or think about your problems that you
had two years ago or three years ago in
business you're probably like oh my God
those weren't even real problems those
were like nothing problems well future
you three years from now thinks that
about your problems right now and so I
think about this a lot because when I
think about my problems of like when I
was worried about how to get trainer
show up on time and like you know some
somebody's membership wasn't wasn't
recurring I had churn issues or whatever
it was within the within the gym that I
had those problems I could solve those
in my sleep now right because the
problems that I have are bigger and so
the thing is is that you just become
more enduring you become tougher and
your tolerance level for stress or what
you deem to be stressful goes up and so
what's really interesting about this is
that I still have the same problems I
had when I had a much much much smaller
business I just don't think they're
problems anymore and so then that means
that my choice to categorize the issue
as a problem is actually the greater
source of stress than the problem
itself and if you can adopt that
perspective you can be less stressed as
you grow and make better decisions and
so I just I wanted to to hit this point
because I I almost stopped and killed so
many businesses early on because I
thought there was something wrong with
me or something wrong with the business
because I was stressed rather than
accepting that stress is a fact of life
and that I'm going to continue to be
stressed as long as I'm alive so
fundamentally stress comes from an
aversive stimulus a stimulus that's not
that's not enjoyable right but if you
grow there's tons of things that are not
enjoyable about growth if you're
stagnating there's tons of things that
are not enjoyable about stagnating and
if you're declining there's tons of
things that are not enjoyable about
declining so there's just always going
to be things that you don't like get
used to it number 12 this is a really
tactical one I've come to adopt this
theory of something called the look back
window which is that customers determine
whether a purchase was good based on the
last purchase they made and so if you've
heard the phrase what have you done for
me lately it basically it's phrasing for
the look back window so let me give you
an example if you're an agency owner
right and you start running ads for a
customer now let's say the first month
you charge $55,000 and they make $40,000
with your ads they're happy you're happy
the next month you charge the same
$5,000 and let's say they make $5,000
well they're less happy you still made
$5,000 but they're not thrilled but in
your mind you're like well I covered
myself last month for eight plus months
because of how much money I made them
and on the third month they cancel and
you're like WTF on the first month I
made you eight months worth of paying me
but the thing is is that the way the
customer perceives that is the first
month I paid five and got 40 that was a
good deal the second month I paid five
and got five third month you know what I
don't want to risk it anymore I'm out
and so they will make a judgment on the
purchasing decision based on the last
purchase and so we can leverage that as
business owners by extending the look
back window which means that the less
frequently we Bill the longer people
stay think about this for a second if I
build every single day there would
likely be a day that I had not provided
that customer value and maybe there's
two or three days in a row and so likely
they would cancel two or three days into
not getting value being built daily is
pretty high if I build annually they
would only have an opportunity to churn
once a year and the thing is is at that
point of turn what would they do now in
the agency example I gave let's say they
made the 40 and the five and then they
made five and five let's say throughout
the year we had two more good months and
all in all we made them 100 Grand and
they paid US 60 right or whatever now
when they look back they're going to see
100 versus 60 but if we bill monthly
there's going to be multiple months
where they were negative or break even
and so the longer the window of time you
do between Billings the longer the time
you have to provide value and excess of
your price so it allows for Less vola fa
ility in their business and yours and so
this is something that took me way too
long to learn but as much as possible
try and build for longer durations and
I'm not saying get people to commit to
contracts that's not what I'm saying I'm
saying try and Bill Upfront for longer
periods of time I'm willing to take a
hit on some pricing which may seem
counter to what I'm saying so that I can
get higher LTV meaning if I know that I
can cut churn by 3x by reducing my price
by 30% so that they can pay three months
up front or six months up front then I'm
more than happy to do that and so
there's two ways you can use a strategy
strategy one is you just say this is how
we do business and we need people who
are committed because there's going to
be volatility and we don't want the
short-term volatility to affect our
relationship and that's a legitimate
reason to do it the other way you can do
it is just have it as one of two options
one that has some sort of prepayment
discount that's associated with it or
prepayment bonus which is one of the
things I like um some level of service
or some guarantee that comes with
prepayment that doesn't come with
month-to-month all right and by the way
you can add a guarantee
to people who prepay and not to people
who don't so if people want to decrease
their risk so think about they're
they're taking on more Risk by prepaying
but you attenuate or you offset that
risk by adding a
guarantee so they pay the same price but
they get a reduction in risk for taking
on an increased amount of risk so if you
offer an annual pricing we know across
our portfolio because we do this in a
lot of businesses if you if you don't
make it the default payment method and
you just offer it you'll get about 10 to
15% of people who take the the prepaid
annual option now here's what's cool
about that is that if call it 10% of
people take that option you double your
cash flow in the business because you
get a 12x Price Right on one out of 10
or one out of seven people who decide to
buy well if you do that then you double
the amount of cash you get up front and
so for many people and many businesses
that little change alone can allow
marketing and advertising to be
profitable and the reason having more
cash up front is helpful for a business
owner is that you can offset the cost of
advertising and the cost of sales
commissions and so you can have the
these costs you have to incur to get the
person in the door and so if you can
frontload the cash from the customer
then it means that you can do more of
that faster because something called a
cash conversion cycle which basically
just means how fast do I get the cash
back that I put out to get somebody new
in and if I can break even on that or
even be profitable on that in the first
seven days then guess what I can do with
the money go back and get another
customer or two or five throughout my
history as a business owner I've had
four periods where I had tremendous
growth and in each of those periods it's
where I was making more more than two to
three times what it cost me to both
acquire and deliver for two customers in
the first 30 days and so what that means
is if I pay to get a customer and then
that customer comes pre-loaded with the
cash to deliver for him and get another
customer and deliver to that customer
then cash no longer is a constraint in
the business which means that I can
pretty much just crank the advertising
until something else breaks in my
business I mean this is how I had $1,000
in my bank account in December of 2016
and then in 20 months was doing 4.4
million a month like the only way you
could do that is getting it is basically
have an infinite money glitch that
happens because the thing is is that the
money that you want is out there there's
money everywhere if you look out the
window if you look in the room you have
there's somebody who paints your walls
there's somebody who buy who
manufactures those camera there's an
electric company that funds this whole
thing there's internet there's money in
everything that you see with your eyes
and you're afraid that there's not
enough money out there there is you just
have to access it and you can access it
with skill by making sure that the
pricing that you have and the terms that
go with the purchases that you have
allow you to advertise profitably so
that you can get as many customers as
you darn well please without entering
your pockets but by entering theirs
number 13 try and sell sawdust so I was
talking a really good friend of mine who
does 100 plus million a year and I was
talking about this concept of sawdust
which is in the businesses that we have
I try and look at what are all of the
assets that we already have at our
disposal right and so with acquisition.
for example I was talking to him about
this I was like well I already have a
building I already have the team that
runs my portfolio and I already have all
this lead flow from companies that are
not big enough to be portfolio companies
but they're still big enough that we
could help and then someday later become
portfolio companies and I was like is
there a way that without adding more
infrastructure to my existing business I
could use the sawdust the stuff we
already have to create a product or
service that would meet the needs of
those customers and so the sawdust
analogy just comes from Saw Lumber Mills
so they take these trees they put them
in through the the lumber Mills they cut
them up and they put them in the planks
but at the bottom what they figured out
is there's all the sawdust and then some
very intelligent engineer was like huh
we're just taking all the sawdust and
we're throwing it out the back is there
something we could do with this well it
turns out one sawdust is great for
plants and growing and putting it in a
mulch and things like that but also if
we mix this with glue we have more wood
planks that we can create afterwards
just using the sawdust and the chips and
so they created a whole another Revenue
line from stuff they already had and so
right now in your business you have
sawdust and it just takes a little bit
of creativity to think how can I
recombine some of these things that I'm
already doing to then create another
product line that doesn't take
operational infrastructure for me to add
to sell and then those added product
lines often are huge margin increases
because it's all profit because it's
something that you already are incurring
the cost for your main business so you
can have this and the key to making this
work is that it can not increase
operational drag if you have to do a
whole another thing in order to make
this work that's not what you want the
idea is the sawdust is already there and
then all you have to do is gather it put
the glue on it and then you have another
product that's the concept I didn't buy
another building I didn't hire another
portfolio team it's just I use the team
that I already have and they come down
and they explain what they do within our
portfolio companies to these businesses
so they can become portfolio ready so
they understand oh this is how they
Market at a higher level oh this is how
they hire at a higher level oh this is
how they price oh this is how they uh
sell and how they scale sales teams all
of those Concepts I already have the
information and expertise within my
existing portfolio because I do it every
day but by just having another way for
people to have access obviously less
than a portfolio company would to that
team then I have another way to generate
Revenue without having to occur the cost
associated with building out a whole
another business so the process that I
go through is I think about all of the
resources and assets that I have
currently available so you have to be as
detailed as you can because it's usually
like a tiny piece from here it's the
glue that we use for this part of the
the log process but then we have the
sawdust from over here if we put those
together boom we have these new logs and
we have the plank making machine Let's
combine them and then we can do it
ourselves right and so you have to think
okay what are the what are the talents
and the people that I have available
what are the digital assets or physical
assets that I have uh available to me
and is there a new way that I can
combine these things and so a simple one
with was like in in the gym space right
I had brick and mortar but we were only
using the space from 5:00 a.m. to 9:00
a.m. and then from 5 uh then from 400
p.m. to 700 or 8:00 p.m. right so that
means the rest of the day if I wanted to
be a more clever business owner I could
say what businesses use a gym and turf
in the middle of the day that I can rent
that space to that's sawdust that's
additional Revenue that basically cost
me nothing and so all I would have to do
is say hey I'm available so if you have
a team training thing or you you have
some sort of sports thing with kids that
goes in the middle of the day or Ends by
4 then you can use my whole facility and
now my facility is generating Revenue
because I'm paying the cost of owning
that facility 247 and so I might as well
make money from that so a different way
of using that is called excess capacity
so if you have excess capacity like uber
is based on excess capacity people have
cars they're not using them Airbnb you
have an extra room it's excess capacity
these are businesses built on other
people's sawdust and you have sawdust in
your business so you might as well use
it yourself this is really the concept
of double and triple and quadruple
dipping is how can I get more leverage
from the same thing and so I tell
stories about our about our portfolio
companies which like that gives me I
have to do an intervention with the
portfolio company either way but if I
tell the story about it I get to double
dip and use that as content and so there
are many opportunities where you can get
leverage you get more for what you put
in by reusing the same thing in multiple
different
scenarios and so most businesses have
tons of these excess capacity or double
and triple dip potential poal sitting
inside their business and they're not
using them the workshops that I talked
about I get to make content from those
workshops I get deal flow from those
workshops we get cash flow from those
workshops my team gets more exposure to
different types of businesses Industries
so they also get better and so there's
many value additive uh things that stack
on top of each other from one decision
by the way if you want to check out one
of our workshops you can go to
acquisition. comom we'd love to talk to
you it's for business owners only so if
you don't have a business go to
school.com and we can help you start one
number 14 arm your salespeople so I see
too often a lot of Founders and
entrepreneurs have this kind of like
animosity between their sales team they
feel like they shouldn't pay their sales
team that much my Sal team so needy they
only want lay down customers they're
always complaining about the leads
whatever no like you should be the
tightest with your sales team because
your sales team is the life is the cash
flow is the life flow of your business
if you don't have sales you don't have a
business so they should get that level
of esteem and honestly a huge portion of
the business should be pretty much
allocated to supporting them anding
their core activities and so one of the
main things that I like to do is two
things one I arm my salespeople with an
Excel sheet that has all the pieces of
content that I have that can help
overcome specific concerns from
customers and so right now if you don't
have a piece of content that overcomes
every main concern a customer has about
your services or your products do it and
then as soon as you do it the best
converting of those things one you'll
know because you'll get sales from them
because people will DM you about it like
oh I didn't know that now I'm interested
take those put them into a list so that
your sales guys have them and they can
send them to customers either before
they talk to them or after they talk to
them so that they can schedule a
follow-up call and say hey let me send
you this video it might explain your
concerns let's let's touch base tomorrow
after you watch it and then you can
allow that content to do some of that
selling for you and as soon as I did
this with my sales team in Fitness when
I had weight loss customers and then in
gym launch when I had gym owner
customers our sales went up and and the
thing is is this is nice cuz I didn't
have to train any of them anymore they
just now had assets and resources they
could deploy to leads who were a little
bit colder who need a little bit more
selling and they wouldn't have to spend
time on the phone they just let me do
the selling for them via the content
that overcome that specific concern now
that leads me to the second one which
I'll just make as number 15 which is
really big a lot of businesses don't do
this but you should unify sales and
advertising so those should roll into
the same person and so I saw this really
early on in gym launch we had two
departments we had a sales department
and we had a marketing department and
marketing always said the sales guys
weren't closing as many leads as they
should and the sales guys always said
that the leads weren't good enough or
they didn't have enough leads right but
when we unified that under a cro Chief
Revenue officer which if you're the
founder that's you you then say there's
really just an acquisition department
and fundamentally as I see it
advertising and sales sit on the exact
same Continuum you have low information
buyers and you have high information
buyers and so fundamentally a low
information buyer needs not a lot of
information or already has a certain
amount of information to make a
purchasing decision a high information
buyer requires more information or
doesn't have as much information when
they start talking to you and so you
have to fill in more holes fundamentally
sales just fills in the holes that
advertising failed to answer and so if
you have exceptional best-in-class
advertising you don't need sales it's
not that they're separate departments
they solve the same problem one just
communicates one to many the other
communicates one-onone people buy real
estate on the internet via auction you
don't necessarily need to have salese if
you give a customer enough information
they can make a purchasing decision that
being said you're like wait Alex you
have salespeople of course I do because
there's always going to be a certain
number of customers that I can get
people to buy automatically and then
there's people who still want more
information that most likely they didn't
see the advertising that answered that
question and so then the salesperson can
just say oh these are the three piano
keys I need to play in order to get you
to buy great and they fill that specific
information need to turn the customer
from a maybe to a yes and so unifying
the two departments is one of the
highest leverage moves that you can make
as a Founder because it eliminates the
cross- departmental BS it's we're all
here to sell customers and so
advertising Works hand inhand with sales
not in competition with them so that
they can get a pat on the head from you
or whatever director is running that
department so often times you are the
chief Revenue officer who's uniting both
of those fronts but over time if you can
find someone who does that that usually
is the FastTrack to being C so kale for
example at gym launch became Chief
Revenue officer right he basically stood
on top of sales and marketing so that he
could control the customers coming in
the door and then once he knew how to
make it rain he could run the business
number 16 there are three legs to the
stool and so every business needs three
big functional leaders you need one
person who's in charge of getting
customers acquisition you need a second
person who's in charge of delivery and
getting those customers exactly what was
promised and then third you need someone
to run the internal operations of the
business this is the day-to-day this is
everything we do to support the other
two functions so this is it legal HR
these are the things that are required
to keep you out of prison and so you
have to have contracts you have to pay
people on time you have to have a CRM
that that collects all this information
and this one functions as a vendor to
the other two heads so think about this
that person should never be making the
big decisions in the business they
should be supporting the decisions that
enh allow us to get more customers or
deliver on those customers better which
if you think about it those three legs
of the stool roll up to the only three
things that you can do to increase
Enterprise Value in business you can get
more customers you can make them worth
more get more customers acquisition make
them worth more delivery and you can
decrease risk in the business and so
that is where the operations comes in if
I know that everything's completely
dialed we have no massive risk that
we're supposed to and we can get as many
customers as we don't or please and our
LTV can continue to scale that is a
valuable business and so it makes sense
to have people who are in charge one
throat to choke one chest to poke who's
in charge of that function and in the
beginning you may be all three but as
you develop as the entrepreneur you have
to think which of these three hats is
more Central to my best skill set and
then you can start finding the people
who will compliment you and so I'll give
you my rule of thumb here is that if
you're not learning from these people in
the interview process about what they
can do better than what you're doing you
need to hire better now if you're early
days and you don't have the cash to
bring something like that in then you
got to learn a lot and that's part of
Entrepreneurship but at some point you
want the people that you bring in to be
better at the thing than you which if
you really think about it means that
every business pretty much trickles up
to the same thing when taken to its
natural extreme which means you're going
to have a head of acquisition who might
have a sales director a marketing
director you're going to have some sort
of head of Ops who's going to have it
legal HR recruiting all rolling up to
them and you're going to have some sort
of customer delivery or product person
who is going to have fulfillment product
experience ux engineering if you have
software that are rolling into them if
that is what the ultimate end of every
business is then guess what your
day-to-day looks like in a really big
business the same in just about every
business and so the idea that you need
to keep jumping from thing to thing to
thing when the ultimate expression of
that business is going to be the same
for you at the end kind of seems stupid
if I don't like something about the
business it's like I just need to get
out of it I just need to get above it
and so you can just develop the business
bring someone else in who does like that
thing and then you can have that person
reporting to you and then at that point
you're doing what every entrepreneur
does which is they have a team of people
who report to them about the things that
they're doing on a daily basis and so
don't get too bent out of shape about
this is my opinion here this is Al this
is advice from me don't get too bound
out of shape About the Passion thing
like love the
game and whether that's selling dry
cleaning or selling software or selling
books or running a portfolio at the end
of the day day it's more or less the
same you're going to have a team of
people that you like that share your
values that share your mission and that
you're walking alongside together with
and so if you can if you can maintain
that frame it will decrease the relative
excitement for the woman in the red
dress because you know that when it's
taken to its natural end it'll be the
same as The Natural end of the current
business you're in number 17 the person
with the highest standard should be in
charge so you can think about this at
every level of the business and so let's
say you have a department for media
buyers or you have a department for
Content creators or you have a a
department for salespeople or you have
recruiting at every level in the company
the person who has the highest standard
the lowest tolerance should be the
person who's in charge and that goes all
the way up to the top of the business if
there's ever someone in your business
who is a lower tolerance or has a higher
standard for excellence than you that
person should be in charge and not you
and so I use this as a wonderful litmus
test to figure out who do I think should
be promoted within a company or a
division or a department or even on a
tiny team who should be the lead of that
team the person who has the highest
standards and so when I think okay I've
got all these customer support support
reps who here has the highest standard
for what they believe a customer service
experience should look like that's the
person you want in charge and so it's
not tenure it's not it's not suaveness
it's not how much you like them it's not
what they look like it's who has the
highest standard and so when I was
starting up I made a lot of these
mistakes I would promote people that I
liked a lot I promote people who'd been
there longer CU I felt it felt bad bad
that this guy had been here for 18
months and this person had only been
there for 2 months and I'm going to
promote that person over the 18-month
person but guess what when you have one
of those hard situations guess what you
get to do you get to talk to the
18-month person and you get to explain
exactly why the other person got the
promotion and what they need to do so
that they can get promoted in the future
and if you have a winner that person
will step up and if you have a loser
that person will step out and that's
okay number 18 whenever you're
hiring make sure that the person raises
the average bar and so this is this is
one I stole from B this is not mine but
it's such a I love decision-making
Frameworks because one of the hardest
questions I could asked it's on a
repeated basis is I don't know who to
hire right or I don't know what good for
this role looks like and so I'll give
you two filters for that hiring process
number one is during the hiring process
am I learning more from them than
they're learning from me now if you take
three interviews guess what you might
have just three bad candidates just like
if you take three sales calls and you
might not close any of the three it
doesn't mean that you should change
anything it might just mean that you got
in the phone with three bad customers
and just as likely three bad candidates
so you want to talk to 10 or 20
candidates and then what happens is if
you talk to 20 candidates you'll very
quickly see who are the people who
really know their stuff and who doesn't
and so I look for the quantity and
quality of metrics that they discuss
about their position in terms of how
they influence success and so it's how
do you define success and then what are
the things that you will do what are the
actions you take that will influence or
increase the life that this successful
event occurs and so if someone can't
describe to me this sounds very basic in
what ways do your actions contribute to
this outcome now if you want to the 2011
version this is for leadership and up
you say how does that outcome Drive
outcomes in the larger business if they
can't connect those dots guess what they
probably won't connect them in your
business either now once you have an
idea of okay I've talked to 20 people I
there's you know three of them actually
seem like they knew their stuff they
gave me good quantitative quality me
they could tie their behaviors to the
outcomes they want and they could track
that outcome to the overall business
okay now I just asked the question of
the people that I'm considering which of
them raises the bar of the team and it's
the team that they're joining so I'm not
expecting a Frontline customer service
rep to raise the bar of the executive
team it's a different skill set
different level of employee but if that
Frontline customer service rep is going
on a team of 10 reps then that person
needs to raise the bar we were
interviewing for one of our portfolio
companies and so we we uh we recruit for
our portfolio companies because we have
a bigger brand than they do and so we
can put really high level talent in
using my brand to grow their their
business faster so it's a way of me
growing the Enterprise value of Business
Without purposely using my face to grow
it so I don't become keyman risk I just
leverage my face to get the best talent
into those companies and that's why they
grow so fast Pro tip but so we were
looking at um a media buyer for one of
our portfolio companies and I and I
think the you know they they passed a
number of candidates and they were like
this is is the final guy we want you to
talk to him so I said fine so I talked
to the candidate and the guy was great
nothing wrong with him seemed you know
had had decent experience and when I got
off the call I I got the recruiter from
my team was like hey so what you what
you think should I should I pass him
along or should we hire him and I was
like I don't think so he's like why he's
like he met all the all the requirements
he had the experience he seemed like a
nice guy and I thought about it more and
I was like name the other people on that
team so he named all the other people
and I said is that guy better than any
of them and he was like No And I was
like then we're making the company worse
and so that person has to raise the bar
of that team because think about the
equal opposite if every person that
comes in lowers the bar of the team you
eventually dilute the company to a bunch
of people who suck but if you maintain
that bar which is that this person has
to increase the average of the team then
over time a company only improves and
gets better and as that person now is in
the team the whole the whole team's bar
now raised a little bit and so when we
bring someone else in the bar goes up
and if you're like wait that means that
I have to keep hiring better and better
people you damn stra you do that's the
whole point and a mentor of mine said
this and I just loved this quote he said
your best talent has yet to come your
best talent is in the future you haven't
met them yet and so in me thinking about
this and I can pass that same advice
along to you is that the best employees
the best teammates the best partners are
in your future not your past number 19
when you're dealing with that team
there's five reasons that someone is not
doing what you want them to do and this
is super helpful for these hard
conversations and I usually draw a
diamond here but I'll just do it
visually here's the condition someone
hasn't done what you want them to do
reason number one they didn't know that
you wanted them to do it so you didn't
communicate it clearly or you didn't do
it in a written fashion whatever it was
there was a miscommunication they didn't
know that you wanted them to do it okay
now let's say they knew that you wanted
them to do it the second reason is they
didn't know how to do it if they didn't
know how to do it then it means that
they need to be trained on the steps in
order to recreate that thing now once
you train them if they know that you
want to do it and they know how to do it
then they might not have know when you
wanted to do it which means you needed
to add a deadline or a timeline with the
thing that you asked them to do so it's
like oh I knew that I just know you
needed buy Tuesday okay great so we're
working our way around the fourth reason
that someone won't do it is because they
know that you wanted them to do it they
knew how to do it and they knew when you
wanted them to do it but they just
didn't want to do it so they weren't
motivated and with motivation obviously
a massive topic a lot of it comes down
to the reward cycles and Punishment
Cycles associated with the work that
they do and so it's how can I incentive
them incentivize them properly and not
necessarily monetarily you can
incentivize someone by pra
and by giving them Kudos you want to
know something that really incentivizes
people freedom and reinvesting in them
if you want your team to love you give
them autonomy and invest in them if you
do that they're like holy cow I get so
much investment from these people
basically what you want is you want
reciprocity to still be like if the only
reason someone does something is for the
paycheck you're going to miss out on the
vast majority of human effort which is
discretionary effort so let's say it
takes this much effort to not get fired
someone usually has 10 times that amount
of effort available to them that they
put to their Hobbies they put to their
other things they put to their shower
time they put to music or whatever else
but they're not putting it to their role
and reinvesting in it but if you invest
in them and you try and uplevel their
skill set either as a human being or as
a professional or both then they become
more valuable in your business and I
think about it this way it's like well
what if I invest in them and they leave
well it's what if you don't and they
stay so that's the fourth reason so they
know that you want to do it they know
how to do it they know when they want it
done by and they're motivated to do it
well why why still or they haven't done
it they have something blocking them and
so an easy analogy here is I could have
the best chef in the world in the most
amazing kitchen and I would say hey make
me an omelet and if he knows how to make
an omelette and he knows and he knows I
want it right now in front of me and
he's motivated to do it because he's on
television but he's like I don't have
eggs there's nothing he's not going to
an egg out right there's nothing
he's going to do and I'll tell you a
real world example of this so my imunity
team uh we spending a lot of so we have
a big office and we built a Hu a bunch
of Studio stuff invested almost a
million dollars into this building just
on the media side to make it awesome for
them but a lot of the guys were spending
their time at home editing stuff and I
was like dude what the hell I was like I
think we've made this a pretty sweet
place like why not you know what it was
the bandwidth on upload speed was low at
the office and so their houses were
higher or faster upload speeds and so it
was it was making them way less
efficient which kudos to them for being
more efficient by being at home but then
I was like okay well this is obviously
constraint and so then we spent 120
Grand to get Google Fiber drilled
through the floor not through the floor
like from the road to get brought into
the building and now we've upload speeds
of 1.2 gigs a second and so now we're
way faster than they were at home and
guess what the media team's here and so
that was the thing that was blocking
them and so here's the cool thing about
this framework is that if you have a
hard conversation with somebody or you
perceive it to be a hard conversation
because they're not doing something that
you want them to do you can say I think
there's five reasons that someone
doesn't do it let's walk through them
together and that way you can attack the
reason rather than the person number 20
the hardest work work is the work that
you don't know how to do and the reason
this is so tough is that the vast
majority of the time if I said what
would it take to grow your business if
you only had one thing you could do by
the end of the year and make sure that
it was accomplished that if you just did
that one thing all of your other goals
would get accomplished what would that
one thing be by the way that one thing
is what we call a priority now the thing
is is that you might not know how to
make that one thing happen so it could
be if I had a mega brand by the end of
the year all of my other issues would go
away it could be if I didn't have the
turn issue that I have by the end of the
year all my other issues would go away
if I had a good sales director that
could scale of sales team all of my
issues would go away many businesses
have one thing that if you think about
it long enough have enough Downstream
effects that it would accomplish many of
these other goals that you have or more
likely make them irrelevant and so what
we do often times as entrepreneur is we
solve the problems we already know how
to solve and so we like doing those
because we have fast feedback loops
because it's rewarding because we you
know how to solve it and so it's
basically like going back to level two
when you're at level three and you don't
know how to beat that boss you just keep
beating level two again because it feels
good but the thing is is that the level
three boss hasn't changed and he's still
sitting there Bowser you know with his
fist and his spikes sitting there ready
to wreck you and so the thing is is that
the hard work of Entrepreneurship is the
failure that you're inevitably going to
encounter by not knowing what you're
doing and then taking action steps
despite that with the idea that you will
eventually succeed if you don't stop and
so we as entrepreneurs have to accept
that that is what hard feels like it is
confronting the unknown that we don't
know how to do and realizing that we're
going to take our best shot and probably
be wrong four five six times in a row
and yet that single priority has not
changed if we still built the Big Brand
if we still hired that really good sales
director if we still fixed churn in our
business if that thing were solved it
still doesn't become less of a priority
but what happens is the entrepreneur
fails once fails twice and then decides
you know what I'm going to go back to
level two and beat that to feed my ego
to feel good about myself but most of
Entrepreneurship is eating glass and
that's why I said earlier growth is
stressful stagnation is stressful
decline is stressful because in each of
those scenarios you're still doing the
same thing which is that you're solving
a problem you don't know how to solve
yet and so the actual doing this in all
three of those scenarios is the same and
so that's why when you want to when you
want to say stress is the problem it's
not the problem stress is a fact that
occurs when you solve problems and if
you're solving problems you don't know
how to solve welcome to the game if you
knew how to do everything you'd already
be Elon Musk and so the whole journey of
Entrepreneurship is turning the unknown
into the known through trial and error
there's a company that was thinking
about investing in that has a consumer
package good cpg product that I asked
the founder I said how hard is this to
manufacture and he said it's actually a
lot more complicated than I thought it
would be and I was like that's amazing
and he just looked at me cross-eyed and
he was like why is that amazing I was
like because that's more things that
anyone who's going to try and copy us is
going to have to overcome and if we can
bet on the fact that we're more
perspicacious that we're more Relentless
that we're more unyielding in our desire
to keep solving the problem and keep
bashing our heads against The Rock until
the rock gives way then we will be able
to be the winners and any single thing
that you have to overcome to be
successful is what anybody who behind
you wants to compete with you will also
have to solve and so I like to think
about it like there's this big rock that
I have to figure out how to move with
rope and some duct tape and a lot of
sweat and a few guys with me and on the
other side of that rock is a big bag of
money and the bigger the Rock in general
the bigger the bag of money I mean I use
this Frame all the time at one of our
other portfolio companies we have a
software uh that we've developed and has
now gotten really really good and is
generating a lot of Revenue and there's
this next big feature that we have to
build out and he's like this is going to
be really complicated I said well the
good news is we're going to get paid
$150 million when we solve it and he was
was like well when you say it like that
and I was like well it is like that and
so when you think about these things
whether it's I need to add a second uh
acquisition Channel or I need to learn
how to hire manage and train a sales
director each of these are hard things
that you have to figure out how to do
but if you can quantify how much more
valuable your Enterprise or your
business will be as a result of this
change then you can ascribe a value to
it and if I said hey man if you hire
that sales director I'll pay you $5
million guess how motivated You'
probably be more motivated but the thing
is is that your business business will
pay you $5 million when you solve the
problem and so if you frame it that way
it stops being this wo as me people are
hard uh man life is stressful it's we
get compensated for our ability to deal
with that stress and take action despite
it one of the biggest unknowns that I
had when I started a few years ago is
how do you run a family office so I went
from an entrepreneur building businesses
to I have to manage cash at a portfolio
and allocations of resources in capital
across multiple businesses and different
Industries how many resources do I
allocate in terms of man- hours to each
of these companies is it proportional to
the capital what kind of deal structures
are going to be the things that are
going to mitigate risk but also give us
the most upside these are all these
things that I had no experience with and
so I just got on the phone with anybody
who would give me time and asked them as
many questions I possibly could and then
guess what happened once I started doing
it I learned way more than I did from
all of those conversations and I
developed my own thesis of how this
works and so the thing is is that every
time you start on something new whether
it's starting a business to begin with
OR learning how to run unpaid ads or
learning how to sell it always feels
like this big amorphous thing but once
you take your first phone sale once you
run your first ad once you hire your
first person all of a sudden you're like
oh okay I kind of wrapped my arms around
it and now I can see all the holes that
are there and so in my experience the
faster I can get to me just wrapping my
arms around me actually taking the first
action you'll learn a hundred times more
from your first hundred phone sales than
you will from 10,000 hours of reading
books about it and so my goal with a lot
of the content that I have here is if I
can just shrink the time between you
thinking about doing it and doing it the
faster you're going to get to your goal
because learning is same condition new
Behavior if you have not changed your
conditions and your behavior Remains the
Same after this video you have learned
nothing and you can measure how
intelligent someone is by their rate of
learning which means by the rate at
which they change their behavior with
given a the same stimulus so if I say
hey pick up the phone and answer it
someone picks up the phone they say blah
blah blah I say great I want you to read
the script now pick up the phone now
they pick up the phone they read the
script same condition new Behavior
they've learned and so right now in your
life there are conditions that probably
remain unchanged and so if your behavior
does not change you learned nothing and
you can measure every video every piece
of content every book that you or every
sales exchange every meeting you have as
to will this change my behavior if it
didn't it was a waste of time and if
you're a younger guy and you're just
getting started like you don't have a
business I don't make as much content
anymore for people who are getting
started but if that is you I just made a
video called uh brutally honest advice
to my younger self uh check it out I
think you'll enjoy it and it might help
you get started and change your behavior